########################################################################
# README                                                               #
########################################################################

For the most up-to-date information on documentation, creating styles,
plugins and so on, please visit our Wiki on http://www.s9y.org/!

########################################################################
# NOTES FOR CONDITIONAL GET IN RSS FEEDS                               #
########################################################################

Serendipity supports an HTTP-cache compatible way of only showing items
in an RSS feed which where modified since the last request from a
client.

Typically, an RSS reader fetches your RSS feeds (15 items, per default).
It then remembers the timestamp when those items where fetched. By the
time your RSS reader updates the feed (typically after 1 hour)
Serendipity will now only serve all new or modified items since the last
time of refresh. If no entries where updated since then, serendipity
will only serve the 304 Header (Not Modified) and saves a lot of
bandwidth for both client and server on periodical updates.

Technically an RSS reader catches the "Last-Modified" Header of the RSS
output as well as a special "ETag"-Header. Both are set to the last
modification time of your article base. On the next fetch, those
received headers are sent as "IF_MODIFIED_SINCE" (= Last-Modified) and
"IF_NONE_MATCH" (= ETag) Headers and will affect your rss feed. This
saves a lot of bandwidth on both client and server side.

Users who have been watching your feed and where not able to catch up
the latest articles may miss some of them, because you usually only get
15 items per feed. In case your reader provides the IF_MODIFIED_SINCE
header the client can now catch all items (resp. a maximum of 50
articles to prevent abuse).

If you want to permanently disable that feature (whatever the reasons
are) you can either set a "$_REQUEST['nocache'] = true" inside your
rss.php file (first line) or append the '&nocache=true' request variable
to your feed so that it looks like:
http://example.host/serendipity/rss.php?version=2.0&nocache=true.

Of course, the usual feed behaviour is not affected if none of the
caching headers are provided. So if you use syndication methods to embed
content from a blog inside an application, just tune your application to
either send the 'nocache'-Variable to a Serendipity blog, or to not send
the caching headers.

The syndication plugin can be configured to append that variable to your
feed URLs from your blog.

########################################################################
# USER MANAGEMENT                                                      #
########################################################################

New users can be created by inserting them to the 'authors' table.

The field 'userlevel' is a special field describing which actions a
user may have:

- Userlevel 0:   Standard editor. Cannot apply many administrative tasks

- Userlevel 1:   Chief editor. Can apply some administrative tasks (like
                 title of the blog, ...

- Userlevel 255: Admin. Can change everything.

Userlevels are cumulative, thus a user with level '30' can do anything
which users of a lower level can do. Currently only the levels mentioned
above are used.

Here is a short chart of what users can do:

ACTION                                               |editor|chief|admin
-----------------------------------------------------|------|-----|-----
Manage private plugins                               |   -     +     +
Manage global plugins                                |   -     -     +
Manage order of plugins                              |   -     +     +
Manage configuration of private plugins              |   -     +     +
Manage configuration of all protected plugins        |   -     -     +
Manage configuration of private protected plugins    |   +     +     +

Manage all categories                                |   -     +     +
Manage public categories                             |   +     +     +
Manage private categories                            |   +     +     +
Manage global configuration                          |   -     -     +

Manage basic configuration                           |   -     +     +
Manage private configuration                         |   +     +     +

Manage templates                                     |   -     +     +

Manage 'admin' users                                 |   -     -     +
Manage 'chief' users                                 |   -     +     +
Manage 'editor' users                                |   -     +     +

Manage private entries                               |   +     +     +
Manage others entries                                |   -     +     +
Manage comments/trackbacks to private entries        |   +     +     +
Manage comments/trackbacks to others entries         |   -     +     +

View/Link/Upload all pictures                        |   +     +     +
View/Link/Upload private pictures                    |   +     +     +
View/Link/Upload public pictures                     |   +     +     +

Edit all pictures                                    |   -     +     +
Edit public pictures                                 |   +     +     +
Edit private pictures                                |   +     +     +
------------------------------------------------------------------------

It is advised that in shared setups only the webmaster has an admin-
access. The users should be given a chief-login, and them theirselves
can distribute user logins.

########################################################################

Serendipity Weblog - http://s9y.org

Licensed under the BSD License

# $Id$
